---
title: "Case 76-7712"
layout: hidden
date: 2019-07-30
---

Alaz came to the office early as usual. He picked up a small stack of documents
from his partner's desk. Few robberies, complaint about cult activities, a
murder attempt. Nothing out of the ordinary. He took out a silver pocket watch
and opened its lid. Apart from the regular clock hands, this watch had a
handful of other dials and symbols, all moving in rhythm. Inspector took his
jacket from the chair behind his desk and walked out of the room, gently
nodding to a chubby human girl in the walkway.

"Inspector Alaz, wait. I have something for you.", she passed a sheet of paper.
"An incident in Blistercoils. Need a report for civilian damage. And the usual

- negotiate with Izzet to cover that."

"Thank you, Lacie, I will see what I can do".

His eyes skimmed over the report from a patrol. Lightning Elementals. Various
sizes. Sullemand's laboratory. Seven people with light injuries, treated. One
person with severe burns. Sent to Simic for treatment. Threat handled by
private contractors. Damage to property - minimal. "I guess this is as
interesting as this day will get for me.", he mumbled to himself already
thinking about all of the paperwork he has to do.

"Lacie!", he called to furthering figure, "Do we have a form M7-K81 somewhere
around?"

"There should be some in the cabinet, I keep them all in order, you know that."

"Thank you, Lacie."

...

Alaz walked down the cobblestones in Blistercoils. Sun was climbing up in the
sky. Weather was nice and gentle. "It is a nice summer this year. But drakes
are hatching soon. I hate dealing with the aftermath of those creatures", he
thought as he passed a tiny bookshop. "Souldbook. Weird name. Maybe I will
visit it afterwards. Lacie would love a novel to pass her time." He stopped in
the middle of the street. A handful of goblins were collecting debris from the
street. Directly above them, the facade of Sullemand's laboratory had a
human-sized hole.

"Huh. Never seen an elemental to do this."

Inspector knocked on the door to the laboratory. Minute passed. Nothing. He
knocked again, this time harder. Still no answer. Goblins did not pay any
attention to him either. "Izzet", he thought the word as if it was a curse. He
took out his pocket watch.

"This is not right...", he shook the watch gently, as if trying to make it
work. He looked around. Walked a bit away from the laboratory. Took a look at
his watch again. "Weird."

"Hey, you! Goblin! Come here.", he commanded one of the goblins in the street.
"You work for Sullemand?"

"Yes.", goblin did not stop collecting the debris.

"Where is he?"

"Researching. He must not be disturbed."

"By the law of Azorius! Go and fetch him. I need his signature on damage
refunding form."

Goblin mumbled something inaudible but was not brave enough to ignore an order
from Azorius Inspector. He took whatever debris he managed to collect and
walked into the laboratory. Alaz took another look at his watch. A silver arrow
was throbbing back and forth on a five coloured scale. It juggled between black
and green areas.

...

Midday sun hung high in the blue sky. Puffy clouds sluggishly sailed above the
spires and towers of Ravnica. Sound of hard soles hitting marble tiles echoed
in an archway connecting lawmakers lounge with the outer walkway of New Prahv.

"I'm telling you, something is odd about this morning.",- a vedalken in a white
semi-buttoned shirt and brown pants said to a little shimmering device in his
hand. His Azorius jacket was hanging over his shoulder. -"I understand that
this is covered by Niv Mizzet agreement. But I can't shake the feeling that we
are missing something." He reached the rails and stopped to overlook the city.
A gentle breeze caressed his hairless features.

New Prahv is a large building complex rising above all of the other buildings
in the Tenth District. It serves as the guildhall of Azorius Senate as well as
the main court of Ravnica. From this balcony, inspector Alaz could see a large
part of the lush Third Precinct seamlessly merging with untamed wilds in the
east. He sighed. "Fine, I will look into this in my spare time.", his hand slid
the device into his right pocket. His gaze turned north and focused on the
Vitu-Ghazi, the heart of Selesnya Conclave. The giant tree firmly stood in the
same spot as it stood for aeons. Alaz took a deep breath.

"No, I don't believe that it is normal for an Izzet scientist to meddle with
anything coming from Golgari.", he said to himself and walked towards the
stairwell.
