---
title: "Elven Genocide"
layout: hidden
date: 2019-07-30
---

## Painful love

It was a bright summer day when I stepped out from my transport thopter to
shores of Jezeru. I knew about this part of the world only by the handful of
facts I got from local notary's office. This area had been marked for
reclamation fourteen hundred years ago and officially purchased by Simic few
hundred years later. Naturally all paperwork was handled by Orzhov, major
member of Ozbedat was involved in this transaction, did not really took the
time to distinguish which of the dead farts was behind it all. There was a
mention of huge waterification project handled by Simic in conjunction with
Izzet and, weirdly, Selesnya. Whole lot of other paperwork which ensured that
none of the Guildpackt boundaries were crossed in obtaining and transforming
this valley. When thopter wind turbines died out and I could finally see
through without my hair getting into my eyes I was rather shocked. I did not
expect this place to be, well, gorgeous.

Lake filled valley opened up into a blue horizon stretching as far as eyes
could see. Beaches of white sand, shining new buildings floating above the
bodies of water and older huts pressing on to remainder of dry land, fliers and
water transportation darting across the spreading azure and the remaining
green.

I took a deep breath of this soft warm air. It had a tint of perfume in it,
together with the freshness of a mountain spring. I should find Professor Válek
and report to my position.

...

She was there. Standing on the shore and looking at the horizon with emerald
green eyes. I have been working at Professors Váleks frontier research team,
trying to find the fastest way to repopulate these currently dead waters with
life, when I met her at one of the ancient elven villages. Her name was as
captivating as she was, Aerith. Aerith. In my native tongue her name meant the
constant movement of life. I tried to compliment her by explaining that, but
instead tears swelled in her eyes. I felt so helpless seeing her crying. When
she finally spoke. Her voice was no longer soft as crabspider silk, it was dull
and full of pain. She told me about her father who grew up in this land long
before it became flooded by her own kin. She told me about all the forests that
burned down in mana infused fire which produced all this water we see now. She
told me that she missed all that so much, and that now it is hard for her to
find refuge in this changing world.

I tried to calm her over the years I worked there. I tried to show her the
beauty of change. The beauty of this new world. I tried to bring joy back to
her emerald eyes. I created new species just for her. I named new islands and
underwater groves after her eyes, her lips, her hands. I tried everything in
my power. I gave her everything I have, had or will have.

But in the end, she took her own life.

I think that was the day I went mad. I could not believe that a love of my life
could not accept change. Change, which always meant creating something greater,
something beautiful. That day I saw that no one of these darn elves can see the
greatness we are creating here.
