--- 
title: "Ravnica S09"
layout: story 
date: "2019-08-22" 
---

# Treading the treacherous undercity

Group quickly rushed through the damp and dirty tunnel. Their steps were echoed
by the sound of water jet slamming in the cobblestones and leathery wings
swinging above the entrance to the tunnel. They delved deeper into what seemed
to be abandoned passageways. Broken pieces of ancient architecture, remnants of
cobblestone roads, towered by newly built structures. Fragments of blue sky
shined through here and there.

Nai was leading the group through this maze of underworld roads and alleys.
Suddenly she stopped blinded by the sun gleaning through a gap in the roof of
an ancient shrine. She felt a touch on her shoulder. "There, behind the statue,
there is a huge groove a snake made in the muck."

Her gaze followed Rozhe's finger to see a dark stone angels bust, with broken
off wings and wines crawling up the base of it. After squinting in the light
she saw the trail pressed in the dirt, with leaves shuffled to the sides. Nai
slowly moved into the church and crept by the eastern wall. Her sight adjusted
as she left the dazing sunlight. A huge serpent-like creature was coiled up
behind the statue, apparently waiting to ambush unsuspecting passerby.

Just as she turned to silently return, a piece of stone tile snapped of loudly
echoing through the shrine. Serpent creature hissed and slithered around the
base of the statue uncoiling to its full length. The thick serpentine body was
at least as long as Nai was high. She carefully backed away from the incoming
monstrosity, preparing for defence. The creature sprung forward with four
tentacles unwrapping from a bony beak. Tentacles reached forward trying to
latch on Nai's extended arm, but due to her quick reaction only hit the blade
of her shortsword. The creature backed away and hissed loudly.

Another hiss echoed back from the darkness.

"I think there is more," Nai whispered to others behind her.

"Wait, let me talk to them, maybe these creatures will let us pass," Rozhe
stepped forward and started humming a tune, "slithery creatures of the night,
let us stay alive tonight, pass us through to the other side..."

She expected something of an answer, but instead, she heard loud hisses coming
from the darkest corners in this chapel. "Feed...". "Feed!". "FEED!".

She shook her head, "I doubt they will listen."

Katrille's owl spread her wings and flew from her shoulder, did a little circle
near the ceiling on the right side of the room. It scanned the floor for other
serpent-like creatures but none were visible. The one that was slithering back
from Nai had grey patchy skin and no distinct pattern so it was difficult to
see where the rocky ground ended and the serpent began. Owl returned on it's
master's shoulder and started gnawing between her wing feathers. 

"I could see nothing." Katrille turned to Nai, "What should we do? We walked
here before, maybe let's just go?"

"But before there were no creatures here!" Nai shook her head keeping her blade
pointed at the serpent, "And I don't think they are friendly or very talkative
either."

"Let me show you how to talk to these creatures!" Shinigami nearly shouted over
the loudening hiss coming from all sides. She stepped into the room, turned to
one side, stepped out from the blinding light that was flowing through the
collapsed roof and summoned her scythe. She hissed at the serpent and swung her
scythe between its tentacles. Serpent swerved to one side, almost dodging the
blow, but the blade bit the flesh making a nasty cut on the side. It hissed
loudly and started slithering backwards to the eastern wall. Rakdos performer
grimaced and hissed again at the creature, aggressively. This, or the pain in
its side, forced the creature to reconsider its hunger and it turned and tried
to slither away. Shinigami seeing this swung her scythe and made another deep
cut in the creature. The serpent hissed and disappeared in a crumbled hole in
the eastern wall, next to a door leading to a dark tunnel.

While this was taking place, the remainder of the party tried to cross the room
through the right side, led by Elfur and Rozhe they carefully treaded between
old and crumbled marble columns. Another creature appeared from under a pile of
stones in the far left corner of the room and slid to Shinigami, it opened it's
tentacled mouth and latched on the girl's torso. Sharp edges on the tentacles
dug into the paperwhite flesh, with blood appearing on her not-yet-ruined cloak
which she took from a bystander earlier. Her lips pressed into a hellish smile,
deep growling came out of her mouth followed by red flames erupting throughout
the skin of the creature. In great pain, the creature lunged forward aiming at
the girl's heart. Only in the last moment, Rakdos managed to re-summon her
scythe between her and the sharp beak. The creature kept trying to snap at her
chest, but Shinigami held the beak as far away from herself as the tentacles
allowed.

Meanwhile, on the other side Nai, Elfur and Rozhe were engaged by another of
these large creatures, which came from behind a broken altar. Their weapons
slashed and cut and pierced the creature's skin, but the flesh inside did not
give to plain metal and was as thick as stone.

Wataru stayed behind the group and tied up the poor fella they had been
carrying from the surface. His paralysis was starting to fade and loxodon was
not taking any chances. After he was done, he placed the human on the ground
and observed the situation.

Shinigami was being surrounded by those creatures, as one more dropped from the
ceiling and just by pure performers reaction she managed to jump out from the
grasp of its tentacles. From behind a third serpent slithered out from the
darkness and grappled Shinigami's leg in a cold and hard clutch. Katrille fired
few cold blasts toward the creatures surrounding Rakdos girl, missing them
entirely, most probably because of a dusty strip of bright light between her
and her targets. Nai had better luck and shot one of the creatures dead. With
tentacles no longer latching to her torso Shinigami could move freely and
attacked the serpent that painfully attached itself to her leg. Her sweep sunk
into the side leaving a gushing wound.

Elfur and Rozhe were dealing with their serpent slowly but surely. The serpent
latched to Elfur's shield and the paladin dropped it entirely. Took his axe in
both hands and cleaved relentlessly at the stone-hard creature's flesh. Rozhe
cited a piece of dark poetry, her arrow swelled with dark energy and pierced
the creature's belly, making it almost shriek in agony. Feeling that this hunt
is going to end poorly for it, creature slithered back avoiding blows from both
elves and crossed the bright strip of crumbled marble in the middle of the
shrine.

Wataru decided to act before any of his compatriots fell. He charged towards
Shinigami and slammed his hammer into one of the serpents, sending it flying
with a hammer-shaped cavity in the side of its skull. "I can handle this
myself, stay out of my performance!" Shinigami grunted through the pain. "Shut
it." Loxodon adjusted his grip and prepared to strike another monstrosity.

Only two creatures remained moving in the room and had already realised that
this prey is not theirs to take. Both of them slithered into the darkness
behind a doorway. At the very last moment, Elfur charged past the hurt
Shinigami and Wataru and embedded shining axe into the tail of one of them,
making the part outside of the cavity fall limp. Rakdos seeing this as an
insult to her performance jumped over the corpse, cartwheeled into the darkness
and carved the last snake in half with a swift pull of her scythe. "Blood was
spilt in the name of entertainment! Rejoice and applaud!" she spun on her heels
and threw her scythe spinning towards unsuspecting Nai. Moments before Nai
could react she snapped the scythe out of existence leaving a puff of smoke
which hit Nai in the chest and dissipated. Wataru silently scratched behind his
ear uncomfortably. Nai said nothing just shook her head. "Come on, show at
least some support for the fine arts." Shinigami scoffed and disappeared into
the depth of the corridor through which the serpents tried to escape. Others
heard rummaging and sounds of excitement in the darkness. And a muffled moan
behind them. Wataru turned around and picked up still dazed human from the
ground and followed others into the darkness.

There was a small room at the end of the corridor. Filled with piles of bone,
pieces of old ragged cloth, rusty weapons and old leaves. Shinigami was darting
from one serpent nest to another, rummaging through muck and leaves,
occasionally gasping as if she found something of great value. Others followed
suit trying to beat one another to whatever spoils were in this room. Wataru
placed the human on the floor and walked around the room slowly shuffling the
dirt with his thick feet. After a full circle, he sat at the entrance blocking
the door. His demeanour was unreadable and he kept scratching his trunk.

After a thorough search of the room was finished, Nai turned her attention to
the bonded whimpering human with a broken nose. Most probably he slammed his
face on the cobblestones just as he was paralyzed.

"We need to talk to you" Nai approached the dark-haired man, lying on his side.

"Who are you people, please let me go..." he begged, "I have done nothing to
deserve this."

Shinigami peeked behind Nai's shoulders and blew a raspberry at the guy.

"We just need to ask you a couple of questions and that's it" Nai tried to calm
the guy down.

"Or we will cut you open like this guy!" Shinigami jumped out with a human
skull in her hand, she snapped it's jaw a few times and acted as if the skull
was talking "Ye better listen, these folk are mean", to which Shinigami
responded with a gasp "Ah! You traitor!" and hid the skull in her bag. "Don't
listen to it, we would never hurt a fly" she finished with an exaggerated shy
posture.

"Listen, it's okay, I will not let them near you" Rozhe came to rescue.

"Can you please untie me?" the man asked in a shaking voice. Nai nodded at
Wataru who was blocking the only exit from the chamber then nodded to Rozhe.

The rope fell loose on the floor, the man sat up straight and rubbed his
bleeding nose. "Who are you and why am I here?"

"We took you to answer a couple of questions about The Gift of Life." Rozhe
began in a soft voice "We wanted to ask them after you finished your speech in
the street, but the wyvern and the Boros mixed things up a bit. So, what is
your name, mysterious number three?"

"Zikmund" he answered dryly.

"Don't worry, we are not going to hurt you." Rozhe kept trying to calm him
down.

"Could I get something to drink?" he looked around in the faint light that was
coming through the doorway.

"Sure" Rozhe extended her canteen. 

He took a few gulps. "What do you want to know?"

"Why have you protested in the street?"

"Because Simic are destroying nature's natural order, and not only that, they
are destroying people's lives!"

"What do you mean?"

He uncovered his shoulders and chest. He was covered in blue scales with golden
stripes extending from the gold scaled belly."They made me like this and then
threw away because I was a failure."

"Who threw you out?"

"The Simic. Scientist Serilius. He was the one who did this to me. We were part
of the Doorway Project. We were all naive and young and in need of coin. I just
wanted to be like my sister. She was smart. But I? All I could do was a
volunteer. They used us as lab rats and when the experiments failed they just
threw us all away. We were castaways. We were outsiders. Nobody wanted to do
anything with us." his breath was uneven, he fell silent and rubbed his eyes.
"Then we met Father Vuduin. He gave us hope. A community. A sense of home. We
all became his children. And we pledged to fight for others. And for nature."

"Does destroying Simic laboratories counts as your way of fighting?" Nai
intercepted.

"What? No! Well, at least not for the majority of us." he lowered his eyes. "We
had a new member recently. I think his name was Eduard. When we heard what he
did we had a meeting. He was scolded by Father Vuduin for acting recklessly and
not within Selesnya's teachings. He did not return after that night."

"Who else is in this group of yours?" Nai pressed on.

"What? There are hundreds of followers, I don't know everyone..."

"No, are there others with numbers on their hands?" she clarified.

"Um, yes, I am not the only one. I don't know all of them either. I know Boris
and Laura. Boris is a dwarf and has a claw instead of his left arm, Laura is
really pretty, but she has tentacles instead of her mouth."

Rozhe looked at his arm and saw a calligraphic number three tattooed on his
handbreadth. "What are their numbers?" she asked slowly taking his arm into
hers.

"Um, Boris is number seven and Laura is eleven, why do you ask?"

"Just curious."

Nai stood up "Ok, I think we heard everything, anyone has any more questions?
Katrille, maybe you have anything to say? You are Simic after all."

"No, no, I... No." her voice staggered a bit.

"We should go, much to do today." Wataru stood up shifting his weight with his
hammer.

---

As the party left the crumbled church and walked down slightly descending path
darkness grew thicker and foul. They reached a chasm, extending far deeper than
any of them could see. Dark scar in the earth was pressing against a crumbling
narrow pathway and threatened to devour anyone reckless enough to step on
slippery stones at the edge. Naturally, Shinigami made a cartwheel on the very
edge. Unfortunately, her foot slipped, she did spin her hands with panic on her
face, trying to keep her balance. At the very last moment, she summoned her
scythe to grapple nearby edge and pulled herself back up. She stood firmly on
the path and bowed to the remainder of the party. Nobody clapped.

"Tough crowd.", she scoffed.

Wataru pressed his large body to the wall and passed the narrow walkway trying
to keep his large body as far from the edge as possible.Others crossed the most
dangerous parts with care too. After the chasm branched away from the path and
hid behind firm stone walls party relaxed their careful pace. Crumbled stone
walls were changed to spacious caverns, with Golgari rot farms sprawling here
and there. The usual zombie labourers were planting something large in one of
the farms, currently heavily infested with waspcrabs, which flew in swarms and
consumed the bloodcaps and weyheads, which were growing in batches on piles of
refuse.

After the sweet stench of decay, the party was greeted by noisy street in the
afternoon sun. Walls on either side of the street were covered in banners and
posters.

The largest black banners announced a festival that is happening throughout
Mokosh, which will be honoured by weekly fighting competitions. The very next
fight will happen tonight, in The Oathkeeper Emporium.

"Tickets are as low as 5 zibs", Nai announced looking at the remainder of the
party.

Shinigami furrowed her brows while Wataru touched his pouch absentmindedly.

"I would rather spill some blood in the heart of Orzhov by the name of
Rakdos!", pale girl cackled, "Just imagine the spectacle, I would light the
fire where the dark sun barely shines!".

A moment of silence befell the group, everybody was considering watching the
pale girl in the ring, fighting to the death. Apart from Rozhe and Elfur,
everyone silently smiled. Including Shinigami.

<!-- vim: set wrap linebreak nolist: -->
