---
title: "Ravnica S14"
layout: story
date: 2020-02-06
---

<date>10076 Mokosh 10, Raziday</date>

Evening crowd bustled in the Fire and Water inn. The table had a plate of meats,
bread and cheese. A large jug with local ale had a bit of condensate on it. The
atmosphere around the table was lighter than usual. Perhaps due to recent
success negotiating with Boros, perhaps due to payment they received.

"So, any ideas what we should do over the weekend?", Katrille repeated her
question.

"Let's drink and relax?", Rozhe suggested eyeing Nai's cloaked figure.

"Drink is due.", even Wataru seemed more relaxed than usual.

"Feeling less of a burden coming from your debts? Or something else is on your
mind?", Nai lifted her cup.

"If not for the loss in the arena, I would be free of them entirely.", he
remarked.

Suddenly Shinigami stopped playing her flute. A wide smile stretched over on her
face. "I remembered I have a music lesson tonight. I will see you tomorrow." She
stood up and left with a spring to her step.

"Good riddance.", Wataru mumbled under his breath.

An Azorius scout entered the inn. He turned to the notice board and started
re-arranging the notices.

"I'll check what's new in the neighbourhood. Maybe we can find some easy work?",
Nai placed her cup and walked over to the scout.

"Mhhh.", Wataru agreed with a nod.

"You often end up in messes like yesterday?", Rozhe inquired.

"Not before this whole thing with Neirius started.", Katrille replied, "I am a
dedicated researcher, but things had been hectic for over a week now."

"You knew each other before?", Rozhe rested her elbows on the table and leaned
into her cup.

"No. Well, I know Neirius personally. We studied together. But I met Wataru and
Nai in an alley. They were carrying paralyzed Neirius to a healer."

"And we all met that devils incarnate that night as well.", Wataru stroked his
new nostrils along the side of his trunk.

"You don't get along very well, don't you?", Rozhe lifted her thin eyebrow.

"I don't see why I should get along with Rakdos in the first place. I would
rather have her caged or otherwise restrained.", loxodon scoffed at his thought,
"Shame she might enjoy the experience. Madness runs in that cult."

Nai walked back to the table.

"I found four things.", she lifted her cup only to find it empty, "Owner of this
place is looking for large amounts of Trickle Fruit. Pre-fermented ones.", she
poured some ale from the jug, "Azorius placed a bounty on a ghost below Tin
Street. 20 zinos if proven disposed."

"How do you prove that a ghost is disposed of?", Rozhe asked.

"I don't know?", Nai shrugged, "Then there is something regarding Gruul on the
Foundry Street. Gang fights and incursions. But the bounty seemed small. And
there is a public trial going on. Officer Tamid Luade is requesting evidence
against Linda Moisuz, something about Guildpact violations.", she gulped down
the cold brew, "I would check the fruit business first. That seems like
something we can do without getting into a bloody mess?"

"Agreed.", Wataru stood up. "Jura, what fruits do you need?", he called out to
the barkeep.

Large female ogre turned towards the relatively tiny looking loxodon and replied
in a deep sweet voice, "Oh sweetie, that will be Trizz, not me. You can talk to
him in the kitchen."

"Thank you", Wataru nodded quickly and marched towards the kitchen door. The
rest followed.

The inn had a large kitchen compared to the main room. Two large stoves had
bubbling pots on them, piles of freshly chopped vegetables rested on the table.
Small goblin with a white apron was slicing meat from a carcass of what once was
a goat.

"Quien are you and why are you in my kitchen?", Trizz asked mildly annoyed.

"Trizz, I presume. We are here to talk about the fruit.", Nai raised her hands
defensively as the goblin pointed large meat knife towards her.

"Ah, the Trickle Fruit! How much do you have?", Goblin's attitude changed
instantly, he placed the knife down and cleaned his hands with a towel.

"We don't have any.", Nai looked at the party a bit confused, "We wanted to help
you with acquiring it, perhaps?"

"Ah, si si si, maybe you can. So, now is the season for the chorrito in the
South. I usually stock up with it and make my special spirit from it.", Goblin
pointed to a large still in the corner of the kitchen. "My place is famous for
it."

"Mhhh, good stuff, I remember...", Wataru mumbled.

"This year no merchants came from the South. No merchants - no fruit. No fruit -
no brew. No brew - ... Well, you get the point.", goblin shrugged.

"Have you checked all merchants?", Rozhe asked.

"Si! Why would you think I would not do that? Because of my short legs!?", now
that Trizz mentioned that, everybody noticed that his legs were shorter than a
regular goblin would have.

"No no no, just I thought we could ask around for you...", Rozhe tried to calm
down the igniting goblin.

"I asked around myself. No merchants came from the South. End of story.", Trizz
crossed his arms.

"How far is the South you talk about?", Nai carefully inquired.

"Not that far. Three weeks travel. Maybe four if weather is harsh.", Trizz
scratched his bald head, "You plan on travelling there?"

"Ummm, maybe not right now... What about the price? What are you buying for?",
Nai looked at others a bit disappointed.

"Two zinos per crate. If pre-fermented. You would not find a better deal
anywhere in this part of Ravnica."

"And how much would you buy?"

"At least two hundred worth. Maybe more. So will you get the chorrito?"

"We will keep an eye for them.", Nai nodded and pushed the group out of the
kitchen.

"That was rather disappointing.", Nai concluded once they sat down back at the
table.

"We should still ask around.", Rozhe proposed, "Maybe he did miss something?"

"I might know just the right people!", Nai stood up quickly, "I will be back in
an hour."

...

Dark cobblestone streets were illuminated by ghostly blue light. Writing above
the door read "Matilda's Shade". Nai knocked.

"Why what brings you so late at night?", Matilda opened the door herself.

"I need to talk with Marry and John. I will not disturb them for long."

"We are always glad to have guests like yourself. You inspire these children.",
old lady smiled warmly and let the girl in.

Matilda led Nai to the main room, where children were chatting and doing crafts.

"Nai!", Marry jumped at the sight of the blue cloaked figure and skipped across
the room to give her a big hug, Nai took the girl by her hand and led her back
to where Jack was sitting.

"Are you treated well?", Nai asked once both kids were out of Matilda's earshot.

"Yes, we have it good here.", Jack replied, "We have food and roof."

"Is everything well with the things I gave you?"

"Yes, we hid them all. We need a lot more to save, but we will reach our dreams
very soon.", Marry whispered.

"I need some help from you. I am looking for some fruit, can you help me find
it?"

"What fruit?", kids asked in unison intrigued by this uncommon request.

"Trickle Fruit. It should be some sort of delicacy imported from the South."

Kids exchanged some whispers.

"We don't know much about that. But you can ask Erik.", they pointed to a fat
looking kid in the far end of the room. "He sticks around the food merchants in
Tin Street, he should know what you need to find."

"Thanks.", Nai nodded approached Erik.

"Hey, I am a friend of John and Marry. I need some information."

"I am listening?", Erik rubbed his sweaty palms on his sides.

"I am looking for Trickle Fruit. Are there any merchants that came from the
South?"

"Oh, no. This year only one merchant came from the South. He barely escaped
death in the wastes. Gruul attacked his caravan. Left no survivors. Well, one
survivor to be fair."

"And there is no other place to get the fruit?"

"I don't know about that. I have seen Trickle Fruits only a couple of times in
my life. They usually are brought by merchants from the South. So I would say
they grow in the South."

"Can you tell me more about Gruul? Why are they attacking the caravans?"

"I heard there is a power struggle in the Clans. Borborygmos has been
challenged. Burning Tree clan has a new leader rising among the ranks. His name
is Domri Rade. Also, there is a new clan - Rukta Clan, led by Bren the Bear.
The leader of the Gruul can change at any moment."

"Anything else?"

"I heard rumours that both Domri and Bren are supported by someone outside the
Clans."

"Thank you.", Nai stood up. Erik lifted his palm towards Nai, clearly expecting
something.

Nai looked at him with surprise, then took out few coins from her pouch and
placed them in his chubby palm.

"Pleasure doing business with friends of friends.", Erik nodded in a way that
Nai felt dismissed. She spun around and walked out of the orphanage.

...

"Do you know why the dolphin swam across the zonot?", Rozhe was trying to
reignite the long-dead conversation.

Wataru lifted an eyebrow in response.

"To get to the other tide!", her pun was met with hard silence, it even seemed
that the inn got suddenly quieter. "You just don't relax, do you?", she nudged
Wataru on the side.

"I am relaxed. I just don't find your joke very amusing.", Wataru replied dryly.

Nai came through the door and walked directly to the table. "I don't have good
news.", she sat down and pulled her cup closer. "It seems that even going after
the fruits will get us in trouble with the Gruul. The trade has halted due to
power struggle among the Clans."

"That leaves us with the trial. We talked a bit, Rozhe has a connection with
Azorius, it would help.", Katrille suggested.

"Ok, it is decided, we go to New Prahv in the morning.", Nai decided for the
whole group. Others did not seem to protest.

<date>10076 Mokosh 11, Matsday</date>

Three triangular tower-like structures forming the New Prahv stood proudly in
the morning sun. Soothing mist from a decorative waterfall pouring out of one of
the towers engulfed the party as they entered the building complex. It took
almost half an hour of asking around and walking numerous corridors to finally
find the office of Tamid Luade.

Simple grey door with a glass panel opened into an average looking room. It had
cold artificial illumination coming from the ceiling, drawers aligned next to a
wall, probably filled with numerous sheets of paper, plain-looking desk,
cluttered with documents, and a chubby human.

The human had a sweaty double chin and black hair combed to one side. He stopped
writing and lifted his gaze at the group which entered his office.

"We came to help with the case against Linda Moisuz.", Rozhe spoke first,
fiddling the Azorius signet on her cloak.

"Oh, very well, I am glad you have come. I have a bit of an issue in my hands, I
almost have a claim ready for the Chamber of the Guildpact, but I lack proper
evidence. I have done the interrogation myself, but this Linda is foul being and
refuses her guilt. Can you find evidence of cross-guild feud and bring that to
me? I will pay in platinum."

"Can you describe the case?", Nai walked forward.

"A Simic researcher sabotaged Golgari rot farms. The charges include violating
guild territory arrangements, destruction of undead workers and extended
biological contamination of the farmland. I am certain this case will land me a
promotion. I just can't get Linda to plead guilty or find undeniable evidence of
Simic involvement."

"Can we go talk to Linda?", Rozhe looked at Tamid with rising suspicion.

"Of course, she is downstairs in the detainment block D, cell 11. Please do not
injure or kill her. She is currently under the protection of Azorius law. Until
proven guilty. A moment please, I will give you a permit for interrogation.",
Tamid took a blank piece of paper and started filling it with long phrases.

"What is the biological contamination you talked about?", Katrille asked,
feeling personally involved due to her affiliation to the Simic.

"Linda created a creature of destructive capability and specifically introduced
it into Golgari ecosystem. She claims that it was arranged, but I have an
official complaint from Golgari supervisor about unauthorised destruction of
zombie workforce.", Tamid stamped the document he just wrote and gave it to
Rozhe.

"We will see what we can find.", Rozhe took the document and nodded for others
to leave.

Four of them walked down the maze inside of New Prahv.

"I have a feeling that Luade is up to no good. The case seems overstretched.",
Rozhe voiced her doubts.

"Agreed.", Wataru nodded. "It seems that he tries to get escalation to the
Chamber of the Guildpact for his gain."

"Let's not be too hasty with the blame, he did say he will pay in platinum.",
Nai tried to remind the group of their goals.

"Let's first see what Linda can say for herself.", Katrille seemed to side with
the defendant too.

After traversing numerous halls and stairwells, they reached the cell. Like
everything in this building, the cell was artificially illuminated. Clean grey
stone floor and three plain walls behind a row of bars. In the back, a redheaded
woman was kneeling with her arms raised above her. Two chains held the arms by
the wrists. Her simple brown outfit was clean and tidy.

"Linda?", Rozhe called out through the bars.

Linda's head wobbled.

"Linda?!", Rozhe repeated louder.

"Ugh.", the woman groaned. "I already said -- I am innocent, please just let me
go."

"We came to help."

Linda lifted her head and looked at her visitors.

"I don't know you. Did Mortimer sent you?", she slowly stood up and leaned
against the wall.

"No, we came after we saw a poster for your case."

"My case? This is a misunderstanding. There should be no case!", Linda shook her
head. "Please, if you can, reach out to Mortimer Lan, he should sort this thing
out."

"Can you first tell us what happened?", Rozhe inquired.

"Mortimer found me and gave me a contract from Golgari. They needed the waspcrab
problem fixed."

"Fixed?", Wataru smirked, "Don't tell me you bred molerabbits to eat the
waspcrabs?"

"Molerabbits?", Katrille looked at Wataru perplexed, "Never heard about such
breed before."

"I just made them up.", Wataru explained.

"No, I don't do animals. At least not any more. I am a freelance necromantic
bioengineer.", Linda explained slightly annoyed, "I created Spitting Greyflower,
it should have disposed of any waspcrabs with ease."

"So you did create another problem! So you truly are Simic!", Wataru clapped.

"I am not Simic. Not any more!", Linda protested, "I left soon after I finished
the studies. I said I am a freelancer. And I did not create another problem. I
made an elegant solution to solve an existing problem. Please just find
Mortimer, he will know what to do."

"Where can we find this Mortimer Lan?", Nai asked.

"He has a small office next to Transguild Promenade in Plaza South. Look for the
banner with his surname. And please, hurry. It is horrible here.", Linda shook
her shackles revealing bruised skin on her wrists.

...

A pretty faced receptionist led the party into the office.

A slender man stood by the window. He was dressed in a fine tailored black suit.
Back of his neck had a rash coming out from under the collar.

"Mortimer Lan, at your service.", his thin lips complemented his sharp features.

"We were sent by Linda. She is detained in New Prahv.", Rozhe reported.

"I am aware. I am trying my best to solve this issue. But it all escalated when
a corrupt officer took over the case. He sniffed out that Linda has connections
to Simic and is trying to build up a case for the Chamber of the Guildpact.
Which is something I truly wish to avoid at all costs."

"Linda mentioned you gave her a contract. What exactly happened?", Nai asked.

"I negotiated a deal to solve the waspcrab infestation issue. Linda introduced a
countermeasure to combat those parasites. If everything went as we planned,
farms would have been clean from those insects yesterday. But the countermeasure
malfunctioned and started killing the workforce.", Mortimer leaned against his
solid wood desk. "I did not catch your names?"

In quick order, the party introduced themselves.

"You look like capable fighters, could you solve one problem for me, so I could
negotiate with Golgari to retract their claim?", Mortimer said after glossing
over their equipment.

"Depends on problem and reward", Nai started negotiating.

"Deal with Greyflower infestation in the two farms where they were introduced.
You will receive 1000 zinos and my deepest gratitude.", Mortimer tone dictated
that no negotiation is possible. "I hope this can be solved by evening."

"How many Greyflowers there are?", Nai asked for more information.

"Linda planted six seeds based on the first phase of the contract.", Mortimer
lifted a sheet of paper and skimmed over it quickly. "Two in the first farm and
four in second."

"We will report once the job is done.", Nai was already counting the reward.

...

"Hey, what a surprise!", Shinigami caught up to the group walking past the
Foundry Street, "What are you doing here? What is our plan for today?"

"We are on a field trip to the rot-farms", Wataru replied with complete lack of
enthusiasm.

"Ughhh, sounds boring. Don't we have anything more interesting to do?"

Party collectively sighted.

"You can stay at your own devices if you wish.", loxodon did not even try to
hide his hope that Shinigami would turn around and go somewhere else. But to his
great disappointment, Rakdos girl kept on striding beside them.

"So, why the rot-farms? Will we kill something?"

Party members tried not to fuel this conversation, but Shinigami kept on bugging
them with various questions all the way to the farms.

The road curled on the side of the Death Chasm. Farms extended into the darkness
away from the Chasm. Few hundred meters ahead of the party a weird plant-like
creature crept from the farm and chomped on a waspcrab buzzing past it.

"Hey, make yourself useful and check out what that is.", Wataru pointed
Shinigami towards the shambling creature.

Rakdos girl mumbled something inaudible and fired a blast of eldritch energy.
Projectile forcefully impacted the plant-creature, ripping off a part of its
tendrils and leaves. Shinigami nodded with a thoughtful expression, rubbed her
chin as if she was calculating something and let another ball of energy towards
the creature. This time the blast hit directly into what appeared to be an open
mouth. The upper half of the creature burst into blobs of green goo which landed
on surrounding cobblestone.

"Well, now we know we can kill it.", Katrille remarked with a hint of sarcasm,
"Good thing we did not want to investigate any more details about this new
species."

"What was this thing anyway?", Rozhe asked.

"I really hope it was the Greyflower we were meant to eradicate.", Nai walked
over the pile of tangled roots and scattered plant matter that shambled just a
moment ago. "It seems it was grey. And a flower of sorts.", she looked at
Katrille and Wataru for support, "So we need to kill five more of these and we
can go back to Mortimer?"

"Hey, I get the feeling that you are getting paid to kill these things",
Shinigami put her arms akimbo. "I want my share!"

"We are not getting paid to kill them.", Wataru nodded to Nai knowingly.

"I will not help you unless we split whatever you are getting out of this.", she
childishly stamped her foot.

"Whatever.", Boros cleric peeked over the entrance to the farm. "I can hear more
shambling inside, but I don't see anything."

"I'll take a quick look.", Nai ran past Wataru silently, pressed against a
crumbled wall and looked over the corner. She signalled with her hand that two
creatures are coming their way.

Katrille prepared a spell and fired off icy shards to the first creature that
peaked from the darkness. All shards hit, and the creature froze in place,
trying to fight the magically appearing ice with sluggish movements of root-like
tendrils. Nai shot a well-targeted bolt to another creature behind the corner
and retreated to reload. Shinigami stood patting her foot, inaudibly having a
conversation with herself. Rozhe put an arrow in the creature's mouth ending its
frustrating battle with the magical ice. Wataru slowly stepped forward on the
mushy farmland.

Eventually, they killed all three moving creatures on the farm, mostly by arrows
and ranged magic. Only once did the creatures managed to get close enough to
spit at Wataru, and after barely dogging the acid, the loxodon made a wise
decision to stay a safe distance away.

"That's four creatures down. I have a gut feeling that there are more than six
creatures here.", Nai said to the group gathered in the middle of the first
farm.

"Well, there is only one way to find out. The next farm is behind this rubble.",
Wataru looked into the darkness. "Something is definitely waiting for us in that
direction."

"Well, if we stay within a safe distance, we should be fine.", Nai booted one of
the plant piles with two arrows sticking out of it. "We can easily outrun them
if needed, those roots don't seem to let them move very fast."

"And I will stand here. Unless you will give me my share.", Shinigami stated
from the entrance to the farm. She did not move a single finger while the fight
was going on.

"Fine, suit yourself.", Wataru replied and stepped on a large mushroom releasing
a puff of spores.

...

Slowly but surely the plants kept creeping towards the party.

"How many do you see now?", Nai asked while aiming another arrow at the closest
Greyflower.

"Five on this side.", Katrille replied while forming three icy darts between her
hands.

"I am looking at two.", Rozhe reported.

"I can't even count! But they are coming! In numbers!", Shinigami's high-pitched
voice startled the group.

Nai turned around to and was surprised to see Shinigami standing in a crumbled
gap between two walls a few steps behind them. Her finger was rapidly pointing
to something behind the gap. "One, two, three, four, five, seven, six, nine,
eight, dozen, ...", she suddenly stopped her futile attempt and fired an
eldritch blast into the darkness. Then she turned to Nai with raised eyebrows.

"Back!", Nai commanded, "Leave them and fall back."

"We should seal the farm.", Wataru suggested while jogging towards the Chasm.

"Agreed. Rozhe and I will keep them occupied, you three do something about the
entrance.", Nai stopped and fired towards the slowly incoming plants.

A few moments later the entrance to the farm was barricaded with trash from
nearby piles. Four girls and loxodon stood heavily breathing next to the Chasm.

"This was more than six plants.", Nai exhaled.

"Did you notice that some of them seem, um, fresh? As if newly sprouted.",
Katrille pointed out. "I would assume there is a source deeper in the farm."

"How about we ask Linda about her creations? She should know how to deal with
them...", Rozhe suggested.

Wataru patted the makeshift barricade. "This will hold them in. Let's not waste
any time." He spun on his heel and marched towards the surface.

...

Linda was standing at the end of the cell. She looked tired. Her long red hair
was messed up, she had visible bags under her eyes.

"Linda, you should tell us more about the plants you made.", Nai approached the
bars, "We found way more than six plants that Mortimer told us about. How many
did you plant?"

"A handful? I did not count, just dropped a few seeds here and there.", Linda
leaned against the wall, "They should all be withered away by now, plants are
designed to die off in about six hours after they sprout."

"Well, we got bad news. There is a source of fresh sprouts somewhere on the
farm.", Katrille spoke from the back, "How do the plants reproduce?"

"They don't reproduce, they are spawned from the mothering pod."

"And how do you create a mothering pod?"

"Well, you implant a sprout in a decomposing necrotic matter and incubate it
with growth magic... Shit.", Linda covered her face with her palm.

"So it is entirely possible that initial sprouts matured into mothering pods on
the necrotic residue in the Golgari rot farms?", Katrille quickly caught up with
the concept.

"I completely overlooked this possibility.", Linda said with guilt in her voice,
"Look, you can easily get rid of the mothering pod, it has no defences on its
own. It just spits out seeds which sprout on any mineral-rich soil."

"What does the mothering pod look like?", Rozhe asked out of curiosity.

"Dome-shaped plant, about 2 meters tall and about 5 meters in diameter. You will
understand when you see one.", Linda tried to move the restrains into a less
painful position, "There is one alive in my laboratory, one that I originally
designed. You can go and look at it if you wish."

"I think that we will. Any ideas on how to efficiently kill it?", Nai asked
everyone.

"Linda, would a potent herbicide work on the pod? It is still plant-based,
right?", Katrille already had a plan in her mind.

"Yes, given large enough dose.", Linda nodded.

"Then we know what we must do. I will get the herbicide, you go inspect the pod
and let's meet up at the entrance to the farm.", Katrille walked away from the
cell.

...

"We found the laboratory. We also borrowed this from it", Nai unpacked a
human-sized thick leather overall with face protection. It seemed to have a
residue of dried acid on it. "The pod in the lab had its seed-producing holes
tied up with chains."

"I got us enough herbicide to kill at least five pods." Katrille extended a huge
syringe with blueish liquid in it.

"So, now we only need a volunteer." Nai looked askingly at Shinigami.

"One-fifth of whatever you are getting and I will do it.", Rakdos girl had her
arms crossed.

"We will give you 100 gold.", Nai nodded to Wataru for support.

Shinigami looked around the group. Her face showed sadness for a brief moment,
then she shook her head, put on a smile, "Give me that suit."

Wataru started removing debris from the entrance, making an opening large enough
for suited Shinigami to get through.

"And plant-killing I go!", she sang disappearing into the darkness.

"Are you sure that syringe will kill the pod? The one in the lab was huge!",
Rozhe asked.

"I am pretty sure. The herbicide is strong enough to kill off even the largest
trees in Selesnya in mere seconds. It eats away at plant matter with ease.",
Katrille reassured the party, which stood by the Chasm and waited for Shinigami
to reappear.

A few minutes later, an acid covered girl emerged from the gap.

"I found this in the remains of the pod", she extended a metallic cube.

The cube was roughly ten centimetres in size. Sides were ornamented in numerals
from various languages, some known and some unknown to the group. The
recognisable numbers ranged from one to six. One side of the cube had a
combination lock and a slider.

"Interesting...", Katrille extended her arm towards the cube.

<!-- vim: set wrap linebreak nolist: -->
