---
title: "Ravnica S10"
layout: story
date: 2019-09-26
draft: true
---

Soft drum like thumps rolled over the noisy the street in front of them. Party
gazed over the crowd to the source of the rhythmic noise. Two gigantic horns
swayed slowly above the crowd. From the distance it was hard to tell which part
of the slowly moving pile of merchandise was the humongous pack beast. Apart
from the head with two clouded eyes staring blankly ahead every other
horizontal surface on the creatures back was covered in large crates and
various bundles. The thumping from each step got louder as the pack animal
pushed it's way through the street. Two pack masters were guiding the beast by
strong ropes tied to a ring pierced through the nostrils.

"Let's just go, the sun is getting low, we need to make it to the Oathkeeper
Emporium before it becomes overcrowded", Nai said and slipped between two
wagons into the street.

Shinigami gazed over the poster again, then turned and followed remainder
of the party through buzzing Tin Street.

# Fight in the great arena

Dark stone building, with a curved facade decorated in pillars. There is a
large porthole to allow unrestricted entry through dark wood gate. On the sides
of main passageway there are two small doors, used by security and other
personnel. There is an alley leading around the building and separating it from
every other structure in the vicinity. Above the alley some fancier buildings
have stone and glass bridges connecting them with upper floors of the arena.
You can stop and observe various statues in the arches throughout the curving
wall. Most of the statues depict previous champions of the arena. Large ogres,
human sized shapes and tiny goblins stand in stone with their weapons of choice
raised to the outside world.



<!-- vim: set wrap linebreak nolist: -->
