---
title: "Ravnica S12"
layout: story
date: 2019-10-29
---

# Raising from the underpits

The platform stopped moving as it reached the scene.

Another wave of weird energy washed over the party. Suddenly the crowd turned
their gazes to the weird group standing in a tight circle around a metal cage.

"Keep them away, I am making good progress here!", Neirius shouted over the
deafening music.

Wataru looked around and grasped his hammer firmly. "How long do you need?"

"A minute most. Mana levels are off the charts here, this is brilliant!"

Two humans detached from the crowd. Their faces were frozen in a mad grimace,
foam dripped out from their mouths. They started running towards the group.

"Oh no, you will not take my fun!", Shinigami exclaimed and vaulted from the
scene in a graceful leap. She aimed to land on strong Wataru's shoulders.
Loxodon shook in surprise from the weight that landed on him. It took a moment
for him to realize what happened and stop shaking his upper torso. Shinigami
jumped from his shoulder to shoulder as if they were made from hot coal, but did
not lose her footing. She swung at the closest madmen running at them, her
scythe left a slash of fresh blood on the cage below them. The man leaped forward
and clawed with his bare hands at Wataru. His dirty fingernails left deep
scratch marks on Loxodon's trunk. Wataru pushed his hammer into the creature's
abdomen. He felt something cracking under the weight of his weapon. The man
collapsed on the cage floor.

On the other side, Nai and Katrille aimed bow and magic at another mad
spectator. Few hits later another pair of eyes rolled over and an ugly looking
woman fell.

"What is happening? Why are they attacking us?", Rozhe was looking at the
growling and shouting crowd. Her eyes jumped from face to face. All had twisted
grins, yellow teeth shined from dirty faces. Another mans mouth foamed.

"Incoming! Brace yourselves!", Rozhe shouted to others.

Katrille felt air gush past her. Burning scimitar landed next to her feet with a
clank and a bunch of sparks. She looked up, and on the chains above her, she saw
a blade juggler with his gaze fixed on her. "Above us!" her voice was barely
audible in all the music and ruckus around them.

Wataru slammed his shield and hammer together and shouted something. Thick fog
manifested all around the group, hiding them. Only Shinigami's upper torso
remained outside of the cloud.

"Shit!", Shinigami touched her scythe and strands of darkness swirled around
her, covering her in a sphere of pitch black.

Group stood in the fog. Sounds were slightly muffled inside. They could not see
each other, nor they could see anyone outside the cloud. Suddenly a bright flash
of flame-coloured the fog in orange. A smell of burning oil filled their
nostrils.

"Group up!", Nai's voice reached Wataru. He pushed Shinigami of his shoulders
and backed up to the middle of the cloud. Sound of a metal wheel rolling on the
cage came moments before it manifested directly in front of Rakdos girl. She
tried to jump away, but she was too late. Spikes from the wheel cut deep into
her leg.

"You will die for this!", her voice filled with rage was met by a burst of
hysterical laughter. Spikewheel acrobat did not even turn her head and rolled
forward through the cloud. A pair of arms grabbed the slim girl and blunt teeth
sunk into her neck. She slammed her elbow into the ribcage of her assailant, a
brittle crack followed her motion and the hands released her. She turned around
and saw a slim looking man, with red eyes. She swiftly cut his neck and he fell
bleeding on the ground.

Wataru slowly stepped backwards in the mist. In front of him, two figures
appeared and clawed at his chainmail. Bloody fingers left marks on Boros
uniform. Loxodon landed a firm blow on one of them, sending a limp body down.

Meanwhile, two jugglers watched a play of shadows in the fog. Four columns of
flame shot upwards from under the cage, illuminating the figures in the cloud.
They aimed and threw two burning blades at the largest of them. Wataru shouted
in pain as both blades sunk through his armour. His knees felt weak. He
stumbled forward trying to hold his balance, but the pain was too great. The
world spun in a quick spiral and he fell on the ground.

On the other side of the fog Katrille kept shooting the blade jugglers with her
magic, Nai threaded in and out from the fog and fought off incoming bloodthirsty
berserks from the crowd, Rozhe kept her distance and launched arrow after arrow
into blurry figures outside of the cloud. She felt more than heard as something
heavy hit the ground next to her. She looked at the place where Wataru's figure
was casting a shadow just moments before and saw nothing. She moved through the
fog and almost stumbled on his large body. A foaming female was clawing at
Shinigami, trying to bite down her exposed skin. Rozhe took her bow, aimed and
shot the girl down, then she concentrated on her inner strength and elven magic
flew from her fingers down to motionless Wataru's form. He breathed in through
pain and pushed himself off the ground.

"Ugh. We need to get out of here.", he spoke through clenched teeth. "And
thanks."

Music mixed with cheerful and angry shouts from the crowd echoed around them.
Suddenly the cage jerked and started to descend slowly.

After a few more seconds the cage was back in the bowels of the underpits.
Ceiling plates closed above them and the deafening sound of the music stopped.
Only a distant rumbling and muffled vocals remained.

Wataru wished the fog away. They stood surrounded by a bunch of corpses. Few of
them wore Rakdos apparel, but most of them seemed like common folk.

"We need to get out of here", Nai nervously looked at the dead. "I don't think
we could explain to anyone what happened here."

"Well, you should be ashamed of yourselves! I asked you to stay under the arena,
not to raise in the middle of it when I was performing! You ruined my show!",
Shinigami sounded furious, "I am going the wash and change.", she stormed out
from the lift into baths.

"Well, you left us in a lift! Could've warned us?", Rozhe shouted after her, but
Shinigami replied with a vulgar finger gesture.

"Should we wait for her?", Nai asked.

"No.", Wataru went up to Neirius who was now standing straight. He was breathing
heavily. His hand held a bloody dagger and side of his shirt was soaked in
blood. "Are you injured?", Wataru asked without compassion.

"A little, I will be fine. The experiment was a success, look!", he pointed with
the dagger at the metal flower in the cage. A small blurry sphere of red energy
floated around the flower in a hypnotic orbit. "This ends the part with Rakdos,
I will calculate the results and get back to you tomorrow on where we will go
next".

"Next? We are not finished?", Katrille asked in disbelief.

"Oh, far from finished. We have just begun!", Neirius stepped back and allowed
Wataru to lift the cage under his arm.

They walked back to Rakdos dressing rooms. They were covered in shadows, a
figure stood in the corner and was picking his teeth with something sharp. It
was a demon, with wings neatly tucked behind his back. His masculine figure was
shining in the dim torchlight. His skin was covered in some sort of oil. He
looked at the party and smiled with his perfect teeth.

Katrille's eyes froze to his gaze. She heard a voice in her mind. A seductive
low tone. Back of her head grew hot. "What are you doing here little sheep?
Would you like to have some fun with me? If so, show me what nasty things you
can do... Hit the skinny human, he seems... boring."

Her hands twitched. She turned to Neirius. Took a step forward. And stopped.
"No, this is wrong. Get out of my head!", she thought furiously.

"Resisting are you? Maybe you are not as sheepish as I thought.
Disappointing..." The voice left her head and the heat subsided.

Nai watched all this when her head felt the touch of Incubus. "Show me what you
can. Take a stab as this elf. I bet she is nasty inside.", her hands drew her
sword. "Yes. Show me her blood.", the voice pressed her with a strong yet gentle
tone. She obeyed. Rozhe looked with surprise as the blade slid into her stomach.
She grabbed the protruding blade and coughed blood. Her feet gave and she
stumbled forward. Her landing was softened by a pile of dirty clothes.

"What are you doing?!", Wataru placed the metal cage with the device on the
ground and looked at Nai. Her eyes were white and she had a seductive smile on
her face. Wataru raised his hand and white stripes of energy came from the
ground binding Nai's body. She grunted and resisted, but the bondages held.
"What has gotten into you?", Wataru held his distance as he cast another spell.

Green sprinkles manifested on top of motionless Rozhe and dug into her flesh.
She gasped for air. "What...", she rolled over and slid away from Nai. Suddenly
she heard this voice in the back of her head. "My child, don't let her get away
with this. You want her dead. Stand up and slice her open!". Rozhe's hands moved
on their own. She stood up and moved in for the kill. Her dagger pushed in Nai's
abdomen.

Katrille grasped her head. The heat left an unpleasant sensation in her skull.
She looked at the demon in the corner of the room. He had a bloodthirsty grin on
his red face. She cursed and fired three magical shards from her fingers. They
sunk into the demon's body, making his face morph. His face curled up from anger
and pain. "Don't interfere... You are no fun!", the voice echoed in her mind.

Out from the corridor Shinigami came drying her wet hair. "What is going on?"
She looked at the bloody shirt of Rozhe, her hand holding a dagger sticking out
from Nai's abdomen, Wataru, holding Nai in place and Najneth, the lusty demon in
the corner of the room, painfully stroking marks of Katrille's magic. Something
clicked in her mind. "Srztak, nurtlr skratgran, Najneth!", she grunted in
Abyssal. "Eh, fine, have it your way, I was just a little bored, that's all."
Najneth's voice intruded Shinigami's mind.

The demon turned his eyes back to Rozhe, "Your friend thinks you should stop
fighting and make out. Be a dear and kiss her." Rozhe's arms dropped the
tension. She curled both of her hands around helpless Nai's neck and leaned in
for a passionate kiss. Nai, confused and in pain did nothing, just watched in
surprise as soft elven lips touched hers. A taste of sweetness and blood filled
her mouth. Nai could not think straight for a moment.

Wataru dropped the bonding spell. As soon as she was able, Nai pushed Rozhe away
from her. "What just happened?"

Rozhe's eyes rolled back and focused on Nai's surprised face. "I... I don't
know."

Demon vanished in thin air.

Suddenly Wataru tensed up. "Aren't they annoying? Don't you just want to punish
them for all their faults and mistakes?", a seductive female voice touched his
mind. "Oh no you don't, vile demon. I wish to banish you!", Wataru said out
loud. Luckily his conviction to the Unknown Angel protected him from the demonic
lure.

"We need to leave now.", Nai was still shocked, she pressed her wound and limped
out eyeing Rozhe.

---

They returned to Neirius Laboratory way after sundown.

"Let's talk about payment.", Katrille started, "It was way more dangerous than I
anticipated. I think you should pay us more."

"Yeah, and you ruined my show", Shinigami added.

"Girls, let me talk this one out.", Rozhe intercepted, "I know I am a new one in
this group, and I am sure you are a very reasonable person. How about you pay us
to double that you promised?"

"Forty gold each? No no, don't be ridiculous. I will be bankrupt before I finish
my research if I pay you that lucrative. It was just an evening job, and all of
you are alive! Mostly.", Neirius was not keen on separating with his gold.

"How about 35 gold? That sounds reasonable?", Rozhe pushed.

"Best I can give you now is 30 gold, including your daily wage. And this is my
final proposal.", Neirius words were met with silent nods from all the party.

"Great having business with you. I hope we will not die during your next mission
too.", Wataru said dryly, with his eyes fixed on the contraption that he was
carrying all this time. "How many more such experiments do you need to finish
your project?"

"Up to eight more. Maybe less if they are as successful as one today. Why?"

"Just adding up.", Wataru looked helplessly at Nai.

"Hey, I heard about your misfortune.", Rozhe approached the Loxodon. "Take my
part, I don't need it as much as you do."

"Thank you!", Wataru nodded. "I will remember this."

<!-- vim: set wrap linebreak nolist: -->
